Skip down to main content
Research
Study
People
News & Events
About
Engage
OII >  
PEOPLE >  
Professor Brent Mittelstadt
Professor of Data Ethics and Policy
Profile Contents
About
Positions at the OII
Contact
Research
News & Press
Recordings
Teaching
About

Professor Brent Mittelstadt is Professor of Data Ethics and Policy at the Oxford Internet Institute (OII) at the University of Oxford, and the OII’s Director of Research.  He also coordinates of the Governance of Emerging Technologies (GET) research programme which works across ethics, law, and emerging information technologies. He is a leading data ethicist and philosopher specializing in AI ethics, professional ethics, and technology law and policy.

In his current role he leads the Trustworthiness Auditing for AI project, a three-year multi-disciplinary project with University of Reading cutting across ethics, law, computer science, and psychology to determine how to use AI accountability tools most effectively to create and maintain trustworthy AI systems. He also co-leads the A Right to Reasonable Inferences in Advertising and Financial Services project which examines opportunities and challenges facing sectoral implementation of a right to reasonable inferences in advertising and financial services. 

Professor Mittelstadt is the author of highly cited works across topics including the ethics of algorithms, artificial intelligence (AI), and Big Data; fairness, accountability, and transparency in machine learning (ML); data protection and non-discrimination law; group privacy; ethical auditing of automated systems; digital epidemiology and public health ethics; and ethical design of personal health monitoring technologies.  

Across these areas he has contributed several key policy analyses, technical fixes, and ethical frameworks to address the most pressing risks of emerging data-intensive technologies. These include (1) legal analysis of the enforceability of a “right to explanation” of automated decisions in the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR); (2) the development of a method and ethical requirements for providing “meaningful explanations” of automated decisions in the form of ‘counterfactual explanations’; (3) a novel, legally compliant fairness metric to detect bias in AI and machine learning systems (‘Conditional Demographic Disparity’); and (4) a classification scheme for fairness metrics based on non-discrimination law. These contributions are widely cited and have been implemented by researchers, policy-makers, and industrial bodies internationally, featuring in policy proposals and guidelines from the UK government, Information Commissioner’s Office, and European Commission, as well as products from Google, Amazon, and Microsoft. 

Professor Mittelstadt is the recipient of several prestigious awards recognising the impact of his work on scholarship, policy, and society. In 2018 and 2021 he received O2RB Excellence in Impact Awards for his work on explanations in AI, counterfactual explanations, and AI fairness and bias in non-discrimination law. In 2019 he was delighted to receive the best paper award at the Privacy Law Scholars Conference (PLSC) for his work on the ‘right to reasonable inferences’ in data protection law.  

Professor Mittelstadt has substantial experience in leading and coordinating multi-disciplinary work across large-scale, multi-partner projects.  His work has been funded by a variety of fellowships including a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship as well as research grants from funders such as the Wellcome Trust, Department of Health and Social Care, Sloan Foundation, Miami Foundation, and Luminate Group. In addition to his current roles, Professor Mittelstadt previously led a team of researchers on the ROADMAP project working on the ethics and governance of a pan-European data platform for Alzheimer’s research. He also led work on the ‘Privacy and Trust’ stream as part of the EPSRC PETRAS National Centre of Excellence for loT Systems Cybersecurity. 

Research Interests

Ethics; data ethics; moral philosophy; applied ethics; AI ethics; professional ethics; medical ethics; technology governance and policy; data protection law; non-discrimination law; fairness, accountability, and transparency in machine learning; medical expert systems; epistemology

Positions at the OII
Professor of Data Ethics and Policy, August 2024 -
Associate Professor, June 2022 - August 2024
Director of Research, April 2022 - April 2025
Senior Research Fellow, September 2019 - August 2024
British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow, January 2018 - June 2021
Research Fellow, January 2018 - August 2019
Research Associate, October 2014 - February 2017
Contact
brent.mittelstadt@oii.ox.ac.uk
+44 (0)1865 287221
@b_mittelstadt
oxford.academia.edu/BrentMittelstadt
Google Scholar
ORCID
Research
Publications

Notable Publications
Wachter, S., Mittelstadt, B. and Russell, C. (2021) "Bias Preservation in Machine Learning: The Legality of Fairness Metrics Under EU Non-Discrimination Law", West Virginia Law Review. 123 (3).
Wachter, S., Mittelstadt, B. and Russell, C. (2020) "Why Fairness Cannot Be Automated: Bridging the Gap Between EU Non-Discrimination Law and AI", Computer Law and Security Review: the International Journal of Technology Law and Practice. 41 105567.
Mittelstadt, B. (2019) "Principles alone cannot guarantee ethical AI", Nat Mach Intell. 1 (11) 501-507.
Wachter, S. and Mittelstadt, B. (2018) "A Right to Reasonable Inferences: Re-Thinking Data Protection Law in the Age of Big Data and AI", Columbia Business Law Review. 2 443-493.
Mittelstadt, B., Allo, P., Taddeo, M., Wachter, S. and Floridi, L. (2016) "The Ethics of Algorithms: Mapping the Debate", Big Data & Society. 3 (2) 205395171667967.
All Publications
Featured Publication
Publication
The Ethics of Biomedical Big Data

By Brent Daniel Mittelstadt (Editor) and Luciano Floridi (Editor)

This book presents cutting edge research on the new ethical challenges posed by biomedical Big Data technologies and practices.

READ MORE
Projects
Advancing medical machine learning to predict inflammatory arthritis

This project will develop useful and responsible machine learning methods to achieve real-world early detection and personalised disease outcome prediction of inflammatory arthritis.

VIEW PROJECT
Programme on the Governance of Emerging Technologies

This OII research programme investigates legal, ethical, and social aspects of AI, machine learning, and other emerging information technologies.

VIEW PROJECT
Trustworthiness Auditing for AI

This project will evaluate the effectiveness of accountability tools addressing explainability, bias, and fairness in AI. A ‘trustworthiness auditing meta-toolkit’ will be developed and validated via case studies in healthcare and open science.

VIEW PROJECT
1 2 3 4 Next
Integrity Statement

In the past five years my work has been financially supported by the Wellcome Trust, Sloan Foundation, Department of Health and Social Care via the AI Lab at NHSx, British Academy, John Fell Fund, Alan Turing Institute, Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, Miami Foundation, and Luminate Group. As part of my science communication and policy outreach, I have served in an advisory capacity for the Office for National Statistics, Fable Data, Mind Foundry, and GSK Consumer Healthcare.

I conduct my research in line with the University's academic integrity code of practice.

Recordings
The OII Podcast Ep. 5: How AI is being regulated

With Professor Sandra Wachter and Professor Brent Mittelstadt

The current state of AI regulation, the challenges of regulating complex technologies and the risks of leaving big decisions to tech giants.

LISTEN NOW
Workshop: Ethics of Biomedical Big Data

With Professor Luciano Floridi and Professor Brent Mittelstadt

Workshop bringing together expertise to address emerging challenges in the field, and the requirements for a European framework for ethical usage of biomedical Big Data.

WATCH NOW
Ethics of Biomedical Big Data. Part 3: Brent Mittelstadt

With Professor Brent Mittelstadt

Workshop bringing together expertise to address emerging challenges in the field, and the requirements for a European framework for ethical usage of biomedical Big Data.

WATCH NOW
News & Press
Blogs & Press releases
LLMs in medicine require new forms of risk management, according to Oxford researchers

7 July 2025

Whether it is merely long-term hype or near-term reality, Large Language Models (LLMs) in medicine are well-positioned to engage with a wide range of medical tasks and be used for medical research purposes.

READ NOW
Dramatic rise in publicly downloadable deepfake image generators

7 May 2025

New Oxford study uncovers explosion of accessible deepfake AI image generation models intended for the creation of non-consensual, sexualised images of women.

PRESS RELEASE
READ NOW
Large Language Models pose a risk to society and need tighter regulation, say Oxford researchers

7 August 2024

Leading experts in regulation and ethics at the Oxford Internet Institute, part of the University of Oxford, have identified a new type of harm created by LLMs which they believe poses long-term risks to democratic societies and needs to be addressed

PRESS RELEASE
READ NOW
Safer Internet Day 2024 – Professor Sandra Wachter shares her insights on the rise of deepfakes and AI-generated online content

5 February 2024

As we mark Safer Internet Day, Professor Sandra Wachter, spoke to us about the online phenomenon known as ‘deepfakes’, how to spot them and the implications of the growing proliferation of deepfakes for internet safety.

READ NOW
1 2 3 … 8 Next
Press Coverage
The Disturbing Reality of AI-Generated Abuse

Somewhere on Earth: The Global Tech Podcast, 20 May 2025

A new study reveals nearly 35,000 publicly downloadable AI models capable of generating deepfake pornography—often targeting women and celebrities.

READ NOW
University calls for tighter measures to control the rise of AI deep fakes

Cherwell, 14 May 2025

A new study from the Oxford Internet Institute (OII) has found a sharp rise in the number of AI tools used to generate deep fake images of identifiable people, primarily targeting women.

READ NOW
Oxford University uncovers ‘dramatic rise’ in deepfakes

Oxford Mail, 07 May 2025

The lead author of a new Oxford University says there is an 'urgent need' for more controls to tackle the rise of deepfakes.

READ NOW
1 2 3 … 8 Next
Teaching
Current Students
Mathilda Mulert

DPhil Student

Mathilda is a DPhil candidate at the Oxford Internet Institute. Her research focuses on AI systems deployed in explicitly social settings (Social AI), like companion chatbots, sexbots, or griefbots.

VIEW PROFILE
Ben Bariach

DPhil Student

Ben is a part-time DPhil (PhD) student at the University of Oxford, researching the ethics and governance of agentic artificial intelligence.

VIEW PROFILE
Current Courses
Data and Society I

This course will introduce to some of the fundamental questions that have been raised in this domain across the social sciences.

Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities
University of Oxford
Radcliffe Observatory Quarter
Woodstock Road
Oxford
OX2 6GG +44 (0)1865 287210

General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk
Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk

STAFF INTRANET
NEWSLETTER
FOLLOW US:
INFORMATION FOR:
Prospective students
Alumni
Job seekers
Media
Policy makers
© Oxford Internet Institute 2026 | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Copyright Policy | Accessibility | Email Webmaster