Skip down to main content
Research
Study
People
News & Events
About
Engage
OII >  
PEOPLE >  
Dr Carl-Benedikt Frey
Dieter Schwarz Associate Professor of AI & Work
Profile Contents
About
Positions at the OII
Contact
Research
News & Press
Teaching
About

Carl-Benedikt Frey is the Dieter Schwarz Associate Professor of AI & Work at the Oxford Internet Institute and a Fellow of Mansfield College, University of Oxford. He is also Director of the Future of Work Programme and Oxford Martin Citi Fellow at the Oxford Martin School.

After studying economics, history, and management at Lund University, Frey completed his PhD at the Max Planck Institute for Innovation and Competition in 2011. He subsequently joined the Oxford Martin School where he founded the programme on the Future of Work. Between 2012 and 2014, he was teaching at the Department of Economic History at Lund University.

In 2012, Frey became an Economics Associate of Nuffield College and Senior Fellow at the Institute for New Economic Thinking, both University of Oxford. He remains an Associate Fellow of the Department of Economic History at Lund University, and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. In 2019, he joined the World Economic Forum’s Global Future Council on the New Economic Agenda, as well as the Bretton Woods Committee. And between 2020 and 2022, he was a member of the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence (GPAI) – a multistakeholder initiative to guide the responsible development and use of AI, hosted by the OECD.

In 2013, Frey co-authored The Future of Employment: How Susceptible Are Jobs to Computerization. With over 12,000 citations, the study’s methodology has been used by President Barack Obama’s Council of Economic Advisors, the Bank of England, the World Bank, as well as the popular automation risk-prediction tool of the BBC. In 2019, the paper also featured on the Last Week Tonight Show with John Oliver.

Frey has served as an advisor and consultant to international organisations, think tanks, government, and business, including the G20, the OECD, the European Commission, the United Nations, and several Fortune 500 companies. He is also an op-ed contributor to the Financial Times, Foreign Affairs, Scientific American, and the Wall Street Journal, where he has written on the economics of artificial intelligence, the history of technology, the future of cities, and remote work.

His academic work has featured in over 100 media outlets, including The Economist, New York Times, Time Magazine, The New Yorker, Le Monde, and Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. In addition, he has frequently appeared international broadcast media such as CNN, BBC, PBS News Hour, Al Jazeera, and Sky News.

His most recent book, The Technology Trap: Capital, Labor, and Power in the Age of Automation, was selected a Financial Times Best Books of the Year in 2019, when it also won Princeton University’s prestigious Richard A. Lester Prize.

Research Interests

Economics of AI, Future of Work, History of Technology, Innovation Policy, Urbanization and the Internet, Economic Growth, Political Economy

Areas of interest for Doctoral Supervision

Industrial Organization and AI, Remote Work and Cities, Innovation and the Internet, Automation and Populism, Political Economy of Technological Change, Work and Democracy

Positions at the OII
Dieter Schwarz Associate Professor of AI & Work, April 2023 -
Contact
@carlbfrey
LinkedIn
www.carlbenediktfrey.com/
Google Scholar
Research
Featured Publication
Publication
How Progress Ends: Technology, Innovation, and the Fate of Nations

By Carl Benedikt Frey

Carl Benedikt Frey challenges the conventional belief that economic and technological progress is inevitable. Frey offers a fascinating journey to explain why some societies flourish and others fail in the wake of rapid technological change.

READ MORE
Projects
Research Programme on AI & Work

This programme supports research in the sphere of AI & Work.

READ MORE
ACTIVE
News & Press
Blogs & Press releases
Remote collaborations deliver fewer scientific breakthroughs, says Oxford co-led research

29 November 2023

A research team led by the universities of Oxford and Pittsburgh has documented the rise of remote collaborations among scientists and inventors across the world and reported that remote teams are less likely to make breakthrough discoveries.

PRESS RELEASE
READ NOW
Highlighting our work on Generative AI

27 October 2023

The OII is leading the debate on Artificial Intelligence. Generative AI has been a key area of interest for faculty, researchers and students for many years. This article brings together some of this work to date and highlights forthcoming work.

READ NOW
Generative AI has potential to disrupt labour markets, but is not likely to cause widespread automation and job displacement, say Oxford AI experts

18 September 2023

In a new study, Oxford experts say that while Generative AI has increased the scope of automation further, it will also make many jobs easier to do for people with lower skills.

READ NOW
Autocratic regimes less effective than democracies in responding to Covid-19, finds new Oxford study

26 June 2023

Autocratic states were less effective at responding to the pandemic, despite enforcing stringent policy measures to curb the spread of Covid-19, according to a new study from academics at the University of Oxford.

PRESS RELEASE
READ NOW
1 2 Next
Press Coverage
AI is indeed coming – but there is also evidence to allay investor fears

The Guardian, 13 February 2026

The OII’s Prof Carl Frey’s comments on investor fears over AI.

READ NOW
The big AI job swap: why white-collar workers are ditching their careers

The Guardian, 11 February 2026

White-collar workers are retraining in more 'AI-resistant' roles as AI reshapes career prospects. Dr Carl-Benedikt Frey warns AI will affect many industries, even trades, urging realistic labour-market views.

READ NOW
“This makes what AI cannot replace all the more important.”

Die ZEIT, 04 February 2026

Thirteen years ago, Dr Carl Benedikt Frey warned that 47 percent of all jobs could be automated. And today? He sees a surprising number of reasons for optimism.

READ NOW
1 2 3 … 33 Next
Teaching
Current Students
Johanna Barop

DPhil Student

Johanna is a DPhil student in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences. Her research explores how institutions and resources shape AI adoption.

VIEW PROFILE
Anniki Mikelsaar

DPhil Student

Anniki is a DPhil Information, Communication, and Social Sciences student and a Shirley Scholar at the OII. Anniki's research focuses on the governance of digital infrastructures with a particular focus on cable networks.

VIEW PROFILE
Kim Kreiss

DPhil Student

Kim is DPhil student in Social Data Science and Shirley Scholar at the Oxford Internet Institute. She is interested in the role of technology and globalization on labour market and political outcomes.

VIEW PROFILE
Current Courses
Data and Society II

In this course, we take a look into the future, and focus on the emerging role of data by looking at specific contexts and issues.

Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities
University of Oxford
Radcliffe Observatory Quarter
Woodstock Road
Oxford
OX2 6GG +44 (0)1865 287210

General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk
Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk

STAFF INTRANET
NEWSLETTER
FOLLOW US:
INFORMATION FOR:
Prospective students
Alumni
Job seekers
Media
Policy makers
© Oxford Internet Institute 2026 | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Copyright Policy | Accessibility | Email Webmaster