Skip down to main content
Research
Study
People
News & Events
About
Engage
OII >  
PEOPLE >  
Dr Ekaterina Hertog
Associate Professor in AI and Society
Profile Contents
About
Positions at the OII
Contact
Research
News & Press
Recordings
Teaching
About

Ekaterina Hertog is the Associate Professor of AI and Society at the University of Oxford. Her research interests lie at the intersection of digital sociology and family sociology. Her current research explores how digital technologies transform family life, with a particular focus on the adoption and impact of AI and digital technologies in childcare. Her recent work examines the societal implications of digital monitoring technologies, investigating how these technologies affect parent-child relationships, children’s autonomy, and family well-being.

She has published a position paper on “Data Driven Parenting” as part of the British Academy Digital Good Society series and is developing a research programme on digital technologies in childcare. Her work on parental control technologies has received widespread media attention, including features in a BBC Ideas short film and podcasts by the Oxford Internet Institute and ParentZone.

This research builds upon her ESRC-funded DomesticAI project, which investigated how emerging technologies could free up or redistribute time currently devoted to childcare and housework, and examined individual attitudes toward domestic automation. The project generated several highly sighted papers in journals including PLOS ONE, Technological Forecasting and Social Change, and Community Work and Family.

Her earlier research includes a book published by Stanford University Press, “Tough Choices: Bearing an Illegitimate Child in Contemporary Japan,” which provides an in-depth analysis of Japanese women’s childbearing decisions and related value systems. She has also conducted studies on gender differences in time use in East Asia and analyzed digital dating records from a major Japanese matchmaker to examine partner selection processes. Her work appears in prestigious journals including the Journal of Marriage and Family, Demographic Research, and Gender, Work, and Organisations.

Ekaterina holds a DPhil and an MSc in Sociology from the University of Oxford.

Research Interests

Parental Control Technologies and Family Dynamics; Future of Unpaid Work; Technology in Everyday Life; Family Sociology; Time Use; Gender Practices in Households

Areas of Interest for Doctoral Supervision

Professor Hertog may not have capacity to take on new DPhil students for 2026-27 but would nonetheless be interested in hearing from highly motivated candidates whose proposals align closely with her current research areas. She is particularly interested in supervising doctoral research on how digital technologies are adopted within families and how they transform, and are transformed by, family relationships and dynamics.

Positions at the OII
Associate Professor in AI and Society, March 2022 -
Contact
ekaterina.hertog@oii.ox.ac.uk
katyahe.bsky.social
LinkedIn
domesticai.oii.ox.ac.uk/
CV
Google Scholar
Research
Publications

All Publications
Related Sites
DomesticAI is a major research project based at the University of Oxford that explores AI's potential to transform unpaid domestic work in the UK and Japan.
AN OII MICRO-SITE
VISIT SITE
Projects
The Digital Lives of Care-experienced Children

This project investigates how digital skills develop in the absence of traditional family support structures and aims to identify any critical and overlooked gaps that emerge.


ACTIVE


VIEW PROJECT
Research Programme on AI & Work

This programme supports research in the sphere of AI & Work.


ACTIVE


VIEW PROJECT
The Promise of AI in Childcare

With mobile devices ubiquitous among young people, it is not surprising that parents are increasingly turning to technology for help in childcare. This project examines monitoring technologies and how parents use them as part of child supervision.

VIEW PROJECT
1 2 Next
Research Groups

Recordings
The OII Podcast Ep. 3: The digital lives of children

With Dr Ekaterina Hertog and Dr Victoria Nash

How digital technologies impact young children, and new ways to think about the ethical and safety measures that govern their use of technology.

LISTEN NOW
It’s Not Her Fault: Trust, Resignation, and Anthropomorphism Among Young Adult Alexa Users

With Dr Ekaterina Hertog and Dr Victoria Nash

We welcome Professor Katya Hertog of the OII for the presentation of her paper on young adult users of Amazon's Alexa programme.

WATCH NOW
News & Press
Blogs & Press releases
Digital care tech’s double edge: Oxford research flags privacy risks and carer burnout

16 March 2026

Study finds digital care technologies could both support and strain unpaid carers, with benefits and risks to loved ones.

PRESS RELEASE
READ NOW
Men more willing to be cared for by robots in their old age than women, finds new Oxford study

13 November 2024

A new study from AI experts at the University of Oxford and University of Melbourne reveals that men are much more likely to support the idea of being cared for in their homes by a robot when they are infirm or elderly, than women.

PRESS RELEASE
READ NOW
Parental control apps – an essential part of modern parenting or an unnecessary distraction?

10 September 2024

As digital monitoring technologies become an accepted part of the digital parenting toolkit, a new blog from researchers Hertog, Weinstein and Zhao considers if should we be worried about their their long-term impact on children’s digital wellbeing?

READ NOW
Summer reading recommendations from the OII community

15 August 2024

Looking for new reading recommendations for the summer months? The Oxford Internet Institute's faculty, staff, and students share their top picks.

READ NOW
1 2 Next
Press Coverage
How AI can influence what we see, choose & trust

CNA Insider, 21 February 2026

Watch the Channel NewsAsia’s (CNA) new documentary series, AI & Me, featuring expert comment from the OII’s Dr Ekaterina Hertog.

READ NOW
Age checks in the app store: Can they keep children off social media?

Euronews, 23 February 2026

The OII’s Dr Ekaterina Hertog comments on app store restrictions and the implications for parents and children.

READ NOW
I Used AI To Help Me Organize My Pantry. Here’s What Happened

Chatelaine, 24 May 2025

I'm profoundly challenged in the domestic arts. Could Gemini take the wheel? The OII's Prof. Ekaterina Hertog comments on the privacy implications of using AI to automate household chores.

READ NOW
1 2 3 … 8 Next
Teaching
Current Students
Lily Rodel

DPhil Student

Lily is a DPhil student at the Oxford Internet Institute. Her research focuses on gender inequality and remote work.

VIEW PROFILE
Ziyu Deng

DPhil Student

Ziyu Deng is a DPhil student in Information, Communication, and Social Sciences. She is interested in the relationship between offline social environments and the online reproduction and propagation of public opinions.

VIEW PROFILE
Isabel Goddard

DPhil Student

Isabel is a DPhil student at the OII studying dating app design.

VIEW PROFILE
Anju Gaston

DPhil Student

Anju is a DPhil student at the Oxford Internet Institute funded by the ESRC Grand Union Doctoral Training Partnership. Her research focuses on voluntary digital disconnection in contexts of ubiquitous connectivity.

VIEW PROFILE
YanQing Wang

DPhil Student

YanQing Wang is a DPhil student and Shirley Scholar at Oxford Internet Institute. YanQing's research focuses on the algorithmic impact of AI-driven social media on public perceptions related to reproduction and marriage.

VIEW PROFILE
Genevieve Smith

DPhil Student, Oxford Department of International Development

VIEW PROFILE
Past Students
Dr Clementine Collett

Former DPhil Student

Clementine is a former DPhil student at the Oxford Internet Institute. Her research focused on AI and gender.

VIEW PROFILE
Dr Felix M. Simon

Research Associate

Felix is a Research Fellow in AI and News at the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism and a former DPhil student at the OII. A former Leverhulme and Dieter Schwarz Scholar, he researches AI in journalism and the news.

VIEW PROFILE
Current Courses
Qualitative Interviewing and Data Analysis

This course is designed to give students hands‐on practice gathering qualitative data and provide students with the knowledge and skills to analyse various types of qualitative data analysis collected from both online and offline settings.

Digital Social Research: Methods Core

This course provides students with the opportunity to engage with the methodological, ethical and philosophical underpinnings of quantitative and qualitative social science research practices.

Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities
University of Oxford
Radcliffe Observatory Quarter
Woodstock Road
Oxford
OX2 6GG +44 (0)1865 287210

General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk
Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk

STAFF INTRANET
NEWSLETTER
FOLLOW US:
INFORMATION FOR:
Prospective students
Alumni
Job seekers
Media
Policy makers
© Oxford Internet Institute 2026 | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Copyright Policy | Accessibility | Email Webmaster