Skip down to main content
Research
Study
People
News & Events
About
Engage
OII >  
PEOPLE >  
Dr Fabian Braesemann
Departmental Research Lecturer
Profile Contents
About
Positions at the OII
Contact
Research
News & Press
Recordings
Teaching
About

Dr. Fabian Braesemann is a Departmental Research Lecturer in AI & Work at the Oxford Internet Institute and an Associate Faculty member at the Complexity Science Hub.

Fabian is also an Associated Researcher at the Einstein Center Digital Future in Berlin and Managing Director and Co-Founder of the DWG Data Science Company.

Fabian’s research is on complexity economics. He applies network and data science methods to study complex economic and social systems, including startup ecosystems, legal networks and the impact of technological change on the labour market, the platform economy, and the housing market.

Fabian leads the Science of Startups Initiative as a principal investigator. The research project aims to quantify the drivers of startup success, identifying evidence-based interventions that can help startup ecosystems function more effectively and help more startups succeed.

As part of the Science of Startups project, Fabian organises scientific entrepreneurship workshops in partnership with research institutions, startup incubators and university innovation offices. These workshops teach students how to transform their research into scientific spin-out companies, with the aim of driving more innovation from the social and economic sciences.

Fabian is convinced that the understanding of complex systems is crucial for solving the complex problems humanity faces today. Therefore, he believes that the scientific community needs to promote complex systems thinking more actively in the political and public discourse, with the aim of improving the general understanding of the systemic drivers behind the economic, political and social dynamics that shape our lives in the 21st century. To contribute to that mission, Fabian engages with policymakers, industry representatives, and the general public through newspaper articles and presentations at industry, political, and public events.

He has studied economics in Berlin, Warsaw and Vienna. He holds a doctoral degree from Vienna University of Economics and Business.

Research Interests

Complexity Economics, Complex Systems, Network Science, Social Data Science, Startup Ecosystems, Legal Complexity, Labour Markets, The Plaform Economy, Housing Markets.

Positions at the OII
Departmental Research Lecturer, July 2022 -
Research Associate, January 2019 - July 2022
Data Scientist, March 2017 - January 2019
Contact
fabian.braesemann@oii.ox.ac.uk
LinkedIn
Research
Publications

Notable Publications

Teutloff, O., Einsiedler, J., Kässi, O., Braesemann, F., Mishkin, P. and del Rio-Chanona, R.M., “Winners and losers of generative AI: Early Evidence of Shifts in Freelancer Demand“. J. Econ. Behav. Organ 235, 106845 (2025). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jebo.2024.106845

McCarthy, P.X., Gong, X., Braesemann, F. et al. The impact of founder personalities on startup success. Sci Rep 13, 17200 (2023). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-41980-y

Braesemann F, Stephany F, Teutloff O, Kässi O, Graham M, Lehdonvirta V (2022) The global polarisation of remote work. PLoS ONE 17(10): e0274630. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0274630

Stephany, F., Neuhäuser, L., Stoehr, N. et al. The CoRisk-Index: a data-mining approach to identify industry-specific risk perceptions related to Covid-19. Humanit Soc Sci Commun 9, 41 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1057/s41599-022-01039-1

All Publications
Projects
Research Programme on AI & Work

This programme supports research in the sphere of AI & Work.


ACTIVE


VIEW PROJECT
The Science of Startups Initiative

This project aims to reveal the determinants of success in entrepreneurship, startups and innovation ecosystems using data science and qualitative research methods.

VIEW PROJECT
GeoNet: Changing Connectivities and the Potentials of Sub-Saharan Africa’s Knowledge Economy

This research project is examining the geographies, drivers, and effects of Sub-Saharan Africa's emerging information economies at a time of changing connectivity and Internet access across the region.

VIEW PROJECT
1 2 Next
Recordings
Startup Ökosysteme: Vortrag von Fabian Braesemann zur Eröffnung des Startup-Hubs “Gravity”

With Dr Fabian Braesemann

Vortrag von Dr. Fabian Braesemann (Oxford Internet Institute der Universität Oxford) über Startup-Ökosysteme als komplexes System. Teil der feierlichen Eröffnung von Gravity - Space für Startups & Innovatoren in Heilbronn. Dezember 2025.

WATCH NOW
The OII Podcast Ep. 8: The science behind successful start-ups

With Dr Fabian Braesemann and Professor Paul X. McCarthy

The impact of founder personalities on startup success, how a predictive model outperforms industry standards to predict company success, and what factors can help us predict which startups will succeed.

LISTEN NOW
Dr Fabian Braeseman presents his latest research to ETLA Economic Research in Helskini

With Dr Fabian Braesemann

Dr Braeseman present his latest research on the work implications of generative AI during a live webinar with ETLA in Helskini.

WATCH NOW
The Oxford Science of Startups Initiative Launch Event

With Professor Paul X. McCarthy, Dr Fabian Braesemann, Clara Durodié, and Guy Gadney

The Big Launch event of the Oxford Science of Startups Initiative brings together academics, founders, investors and various stakeholders from the Oxford and London innovation ecosystem.

WATCH NOW
1 2 Next
Podcasts

1. Brain for Business Podcast Episode 33
2. Thinkers and Doers Podcast Episode 5
3. Data Skeptic Podcast
4. BE:Curious Podcast
5. Exploring Digital Spheres Podcast

Blogs & Press releases
Beyond the hype: Oxford & Berlin study uncovers four faces of ChatGPT’s early adopters 

28 January 2026

New international study identifies four distinct archetypes of early AI users and challenges the "one-size-fits-all" notion of AI adoption.

PRESS RELEASE
READ NOW
When big tech plays like Man United: How ‘kill zones’ threaten Europe’s future

16 January 2026

Dr Fabian Braesemann examines how tech giants’ acquisition strategies mirror those of elite football clubs buying up young talent, and why this matters for Europe’s digital sovereignty. 

READ NOW
OII Researcher Dr Fabian Braesemann wins European AI Innovation Award

16 December 2025

OII Researcher Dr Fabian Braesemann wins European AI Innovation Award for research-based Founder Personality Quiz. 

READ NOW
Survival of the fittest: ‘creative destruction’ and programming technologies

10 December 2025

The OII's Dr Fabian Braesemann examines the dynamics of the software world and what Stack Overflow tells us about the ‘creative destruction’ of programming technologies.

READ NOW
1 2 3 … 5 Next
Press Coverage
Without a response from US social media, we in Europe are doomed

Focus Online, 29 December 2025

The US travel bans for social media activists show: We now need digital sovereignty through European social media.

READ NOW
Founder personality could predict startup success

Startups Magazine, 17 October 2023

Research reveals that when it comes to startup success, a founder’s personality – or the combined personalities of the founding team – is paramount.

READ NOW
Invisible Work Online: Study Reveals Blind Spots in the Digital Supply Chain

Digital Global, 07 January 2026

Designing logos, labeling data, repairing software. Cloud workers in the Global South keep digital business models running. A study now sheds light on why their work has hardly been considered part of supply chains until now.

READ NOW
1 2 3 … 17 Next