Skip down to main content
Research
Study
People
News & Events
About
Engage
OII >  
PEOPLE >  
Professor Greg Taylor
Professor of Digital Markets and Competition
Profile Contents
About
Positions at the OII
Contact
Research
News & Press
Recordings
Teaching
About

Greg Taylor is an economist whose research focuses on the digital economy, particularly online competition, competition policy, and regulation. His work advances our understanding of digital markets and provides a rigorous foundation for policy and strategic decision making. Recent topics of interest include platform markets, consumer search and online information intermediaries, digital bundling, and the role of data in market competition.

Formally, Taylor’s research spans the domains of industrial organisation, information economics, network economics, game theory, strategy, and marketing. Although his research is primarily theoretical in nature, it deals with some of the most pressing issues of our time, and Dr Taylor has advised government and regulators in the UK and globally.

Besides his research, Dr Taylor is an award-winning teacher of economics. He joined the OII in 2009 after completing a PhD in economics at the University of Southampton.

Areas of Interest for Doctoral Supervision

I am interested in supervising projects from students who have a strong economics background and who plan to apply tools from economic theory and/or game theory to study the digital economy. Special interests include projects related to competition policy, industrial regulation, consumer search and information intermediaries, platform economics, the bundling of digital goods, and the economics of data.

Research Interests

Economics of digital markets, especially competition policy, digital regulation, platform and network economics, information intermediaries, digital bundling, and the economics of data.

Positions at the OII
Professor of Digital Markets and Competition, August 2025 -
Director of Graduate Studies, July 2018 - October 2022
Associate Professor, June 2017 - August 2025
Senior Research Fellow, May 2017 - August 2025
MSc Programme Director, October 2016 - July 2018
MSc Interim Programme Director, March 2016 - June 2016
Research Fellow, October 2009 - May 2017
Contact
greg.taylor@oii.ox.ac.uk
+44 (0)1865 287201
LinkedIn
www.greg-taylor.co.uk/
CV
Papers
Research
Publications

Notable Publications
TAYLOR, G. and de Cornière, A. (2025) "Data and Competition: A Simple Framework", RAND Journal of Economics. 56 (4) 494-510.
TAYLOR, G. and de Cornière, A. (2024) "Anticompetitive Bundling when Buyers Compete", American Economic Journal: Microeconomics. 16 (1) 293-328.
TAYLOR, G. and de Cornière, A. (2024) "Data-Driven Mergers", Management Science. 70 (9) 6473-6482.
Ronayne, D. and TAYLOR, G. (2022) "Competing Sales Channels With Captive Consumers", The Economic Journal. 132 (642) 741-766.
de Cornière, A. and TAYLOR, G. (2021) "Upstream Bundling and Leverage of Market Power", The Economic Journal. 131 (640) 3122-3144.
de Cornière, A. and TAYLOR, G. (2019) "A Model of Biased Intermediation", RAND Journal of Economics. 50 (4) 854-882.
Taylor, G. (2017) "Raising search costs to deter window shopping can increase profits and welfare", The RAND Journal of Economics. 48 (2) 387-408.
de Cornière, A. and Taylor, G. (2014) "Integration and search engine bias", The RAND Journal of Economics. 45 (3) 576-597.
All Publications
Projects
Research Programme on AI, Government and Policy

This programme supports research on AI, Government and Policy.


ACTIVE


VIEW PROJECT
Data-driven Mergers

This project seeks to provide an economic model of data-driven mergers: mergers involving a significant transfer of data between firms. It will study how they affect competition in the relevant markets, to identify potential harms and guide policy.

VIEW PROJECT
Integrity Statement

My work has been financially supported by UK taxpayers, the Carnegie Corporation of New York, the John Fell Fund, the NET Institute, Research Councils UK, the Digital Economics Research Network, the Rockefeller Foundation and the Research Programme on AI, Government, and Policy, funded by the Dieter Schwarz Stiftung gGmbH.. As part of my policy outreach, I have served in an unpaid advisory capacity to HM Government’s Department for Business, Innovation, and Skills and the Competition and Markets Authority. I have also undertaken paid consultancy work for the Competition and Markets Authority.

Recordings
Too few choices, too much power?

With Professor Greg Taylor, and Tania Van Den Brande

This episode of the OII’s The Human Interface podcast explores how dominant tech giants shape digital markets, affecting consumers, businesses, and innovation—and how regulators aim to keep their power in check.

WATCH NOW
News & Press
Blogs & Press releases
Four OII Academics Win Teaching Excellence Awards from the Social Sciences Divisional Board 

17 June 2025

Dr Adam Mahdi, Dr Ana Valdivia, Professor Greg Taylor, and Professor Kathryn Eccles are among the teaching faculty recognised for teaching excellence at Oxford. 

READ NOW
European Commission proceeds conservatively on gatekeepers, says OII expert

6 September 2023

Professor Greg Taylor, Associate Professor, Senior Research Fellow, Oxford Internet Institute, sets out his view on the European Commission’s latest announcement under the Digital Markets Act.

READ NOW
Press Coverage
The UK Investigates Amazon’s Partnership with Anthropic

The Daily Upside, 09 August 2024

The UK’s Competition and Markets Authority is probing whether Amazon’s $4 billion partnership with Anthropic might break antitrust rules.

READ NOW
Europe Goes to War with Apple

The Daily Upside, 24 June 2024

The European Commission accused Apple of breaching the anti-steering app store rules included in the relatively new Digital Markets Act.

READ NOW
Forced to Change: Tech Giants Bow to Global Onslaught of Rules

New York Times, 04 March 2024

For years, Apple, Google, Meta and others operated unfettered. But new laws and regulations have finally compelled them to make major shifts to their products and businesses.

READ NOW
1 2 Next
Teaching
Current Students
Dylan Thurgood

DPhil Student

Dylan Thurgood is a third-year DPhil in Social Data Science student and was previously a student on the MSc in Social Data Science. His research focuses on how online news exposure shapes political attitudes.

VIEW PROFILE
Philipp Riederle

DPhil Student

Philipp researches instruments to distribute the power of digital platform monopolists. He analyses the effects of vertical separation and interoperability in decentralised platform ecosystems.

VIEW PROFILE
Current Courses
Internet Economics

Internet Economics is a course in economics for people who want to combine a rigorous understanding of digital markets with a focus on good policy making.

Digital Social Research: Methods Core

This course provides students with the opportunity to engage with the methodological, ethical and philosophical underpinnings of quantitative and qualitative social science research practices.

Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities
University of Oxford
Radcliffe Observatory Quarter
Woodstock Road
Oxford
OX2 6GG +44 (0)1865 287210

General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk
Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk

STAFF INTRANET
NEWSLETTER
FOLLOW US:
INFORMATION FOR:
Prospective students
Alumni
Job seekers
Media
Policy makers
© Oxford Internet Institute 2026 | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Copyright Policy | Accessibility | Email Webmaster