Skip down to main content
Research
Study
People
News & Events
About
Engage
OII >  
PEOPLE >  
Dr Johann Laux
Departmental Research Lecturer
Profile Contents
About
Positions at the OII
Contact
Research
News & Press
Recordings
Teaching
About

Johann Laux is a Departmental Research Lecturer in AI, Government & Policy at the Oxford Internet Institute (OII). He is also a Fellow at the GovTech Campus Deutschland and a Research Affiliate at the Humboldt Institute for Internet and Society in Berlin. Johann studies the legal, ethical, and governmental implications of emerging technologies such as AI. At the OII, Johann leads the Emerging Laws of Oversight project in which he investigates how human oversight of AI systems can be implemented effectively.

Johann graduated from the London School of Economics and Political Science with a degree in Politics & Governance and from the University of Hamburg with degrees in Law. He earned a PhD in Law at the University of Hamburg, researching the institutional design of courts with mechanisms of collective intelligence. Johann studied Philosophy at King’s College London and was a Visiting Researcher at UC Berkeley, School of Law. Before joining Oxford, Johann was an Emile Noël Fellow at New York University’s School of Law and a Program Affiliate with the Digital Welfare State and Human Rights Project at New York University’s School of Law.

Johann has great experience in public writing and publishing, having previously worked with publications such as Monocle, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, and Die ZEIT.

Research Interests

Governance of Artificial Intelligence | Human Oversight | Automated Decision-Making | Inferential Analytics | Artificial Intelligence and Welfare Policy | Institutional Design | Collective Intelligence | Digital Economy | Platforms | Personalisation | Law and Economics | Ethics | Democratic Theory | Constitutionalism

Positions at the OII
Departmental Research Lecturer, September 2025 -
British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow, September 2022 - August 2025
Postdoctoral Researcher, November 2019 - August 2022
Contact
johann.laux@oii.ox.ac.uk
+44 1865 87211
@Johann_Laux
LinkedIn
Research
Publications

All Publications
Projects
The Emerging Laws of Oversight

This project asks how laws and regulations can be improved to promote the effectiveness of human oversight in automated decision-making and better protect people from harm.

VIEW PROJECT
Programme on the Governance of Emerging Technologies

This OII research programme investigates legal, ethical, and social aspects of AI, machine learning, and other emerging information technologies.

VIEW PROJECT
Trustworthiness Auditing for AI

This project will evaluate the effectiveness of accountability tools addressing explainability, bias, and fairness in AI. A ‘trustworthiness auditing meta-toolkit’ will be developed and validated via case studies in healthcare and open science.

VIEW PROJECT
1 2 Next
Integrity Statement

I conduct my research in line with the University's academic integrity code of practice.

Recordings
What is the role of humans in the age of AI?

With Dr Johann Laux, Ali Shah, and Maxine Setiawan

The evolving role of human oversight of AI systems in the workplace and beyond.

WATCH NOW
News & Press
Blogs & Press releases
Why Europe Needs Two Kinds of Digital Sovereignty

24 April 2026

Whether Europe shapes the next technological paradigm or simply inherits it depends on one overlooked distinction.

READ NOW
Highlighting our work on Generative AI

27 October 2023

The OII is leading the debate on Artificial Intelligence. Generative AI has been a key area of interest for faculty, researchers and students for many years. This article brings together some of this work to date and highlights forthcoming work.

READ NOW
OII researcher explores future of work and AI in new film

13 September 2023

In this new video, Dr Fabian Stephany, OII explores the future of work and AI. He explains to us why the demand for certain occupations is skyrocketing not despite - but because of - AI.

READ NOW
A Smart Tool for Fairer Online Advertising

8 December 2022

In a new contribution, OII researchers led by Dr Johann Laux show there’s a smart way to govern personalised adverts, balancing the benefits of personalisation against the risks.

READ NOW
1 2 Next
Press Coverage
AI Unlikely To Ever Work Unsupervised, At Least For The Big Stuff

Forbes, 05 August 2024

Will we ever trust artificial intelligence to act on its own? Probably not, at least for the foreseeable future.

READ NOW
There are holes in Europe’s AI Act — and researchers can help to fill them

Nature, 10 January 2024

Scientists have been promised a front-row seat for the formulation of the EU’s proposed AI regulatory structures. They should seize this opportunity to bridge some big gaps.

READ NOW
My doctor diagnosed me with ADHD – so how did my phone find out

The Guardian, 26 November 2023

READ NOW
1 2 3 4 Next
Teaching
Current Courses
Artificial Intelligence for Policymaking

This course examines how AI can be used to improve policymaking and governance. The course will explore how AI can be used to develop, evaluate, and implement better policies; as well as the technical and organizational conditions that enable AI-driven policymaking.

Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities
University of Oxford
Radcliffe Observatory Quarter
Woodstock Road
Oxford
OX2 6GG +44 (0)1865 287210

General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk
Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk

STAFF INTRANET
NEWSLETTER
FOLLOW US:
INFORMATION FOR:
Prospective students
Alumni
Job seekers
Media
Policy makers
© Oxford Internet Institute 2026 | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Copyright Policy | Accessibility | Email Webmaster