Skip down to main content
Research
Study
People
News & Events
About
Engage
OII >  
PEOPLE >  
Dr Paul Röttger
Departmental Lecturer
(He/Him)
Profile Contents
About
Positions at the OII
Contact
News & Press
Teaching
Supervisors at the OII
About

Paul is a Departmental Lecturer at the Oxford Internet Institute (OII) and an Associate Member of Nuffield College at the University of Oxford. His work is located at the intersection of natural language processing (NLP) and the social sciences.

In his current research, Paul focuses on evaluating and improving the safety of large language models (LLMs) as well as studying their societal impacts. For his recent work in this area, he won an Outstanding Paper Award at ACL, the top NLP conference, and a Best Paper Award at NeurIPS, the top AI conference.

Before joining the OII as Lecturer, Paul was a Postdoctoral Researcher at Bocconi University, working with Prof Dirk Hovy and the MilaNLP lab. Paul also holds a DPhil from the OII, where he was supervised by Prof Helen Margetts and Prof Janet Pierrehumbert. During his DPhil, Paul co-founded a start-up building AI tools for content moderation, which was acquired by another large online safety company in 2023.

Research Interests

Large language models, societal impacts of AI, AI alignment, AI safety

Positions at the OII
Departmental Lecturer, December 2025 -
Teaching Assistant (NLP), January 2022 - March 2022
DPhil Student, October 2019 - July 2023
Teaching Assistant (Statistics), October 2019 - March 2020
Contact
paul.rottger@oii.ox.ac.uk
He/Him
@paul_rottger
LinkedIn
paulrottger.com/
Google Scholar
News & Press
Blogs & Press releases
Oxford Internet Institute researchers head to Rio for ICLR 2026

22 April 2026

OII researchers and DPhil students will attend the 14th International Conference on Learning Representations in Rio de Janeiro from 23–27 April 2026.

READ NOW
Highlighting our work on Generative AI

27 October 2023

The OII is leading the debate on Artificial Intelligence. Generative AI has been a key area of interest for faculty, researchers and students for many years. This article brings together some of this work to date and highlights forthcoming work.

READ NOW
Tackling online hate speech one emoji at a time

13 August 2021

AI content moderation systems have the potential to relieve the burden of tackling online hate. But the use of emojis to express hate can outpace what AI systems can understand.

READ NOW
Press Coverage
When AI chatbots become malicious

Tagesschau, 16 January 2026

The OII’s Dr Paul Röttger comments on the risks of AI models and how they can malfunction.

READ NOW
A common practice in the AI ​​industry can lead language models to make statements glorifying violence. Researchers explain how this behaviour arises.

Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (FAZ), 24 January 2026

The OII’s Dr Paul Röttger comments on how LLMs can glorify violence.

READ NOW
Google Bard: AI chatbot to be released for public testing

The Times, 21 March 2023

Google is releasing Bard, its artificial intelligence chatbot, to the public as it faces up to the challenge presented by ChatGPT to its dominance in web searches.

READ NOW
1 2 3 Next
Teaching