Skip down to main content
Research
Study
People
News & Events
About
Engage
OII >  
PEOPLE >  
Professor Ralph Schroeder
Senior Research Fellow
Profile Contents
About
Positions at the OII
Contact
Research
News & Press
Recordings
Teaching
About

Ralph Schroeder has been at the OII since 2004. He has authored or co-authored more than 170 papers. His recent book publications include ‘Rethinking Science, Technology and Social Change’ (Stanford University Press, 2007), ‘Being There Together: Social Interaction in Virtual Environments’ (Oxford University Press, 2010), ‘An Age of Limits: Social Theory for the 21st Century’ (Palgrave Macmillan 2013), with Eric T. Meyer, ‘Knowledge Machines: Digital Transformations of the Sciences and Humanities’ (MIT Press 2015), ‘Social Theory after the Internet‘ (UCL Press 2018) and ‘Online Politics in India and China: Social Theory beyond East and West’ (Oxford University Press, forthcoming). He is currently working on how AI can be used to develop social theory.

Areas of Interest for Doctoral Supervision

Shared virtual environments; digital media, politics and populism (China, India, Sweden, US); AI for developing social theory

Research Interests

Shared virtual environments, digital media and populism, AI for developing social theory.

If you have questions about my research, you can ask them to this Poe AI Bot

Positions at the OII
Programme Director of the MSc in Social Science of the Internet, July 2018 - January 2023
Director of Research, October 2009 - September 2012
Senior Research Fellow, January 2009 -
MSc Programme Director, January 2009 - October 2016
James Martin Research Fellow, September 2004 - December 2008
Contact
ralph.schroeder@oii.ox.ac.uk
+44 (0)1865 287224
CV
Papers
ORCID
Research
Publications

All Publications
Featured Publications
Publication
Digital Transformations of the Public Arena

By Andreas Jungherr and Ralph Schroeder

Digital technologies have changed the public arena, but there is little scholarly consensus about how they have done so. This book rethinks the workings and dysfunctions of the contemporary public arena, and considers ways to improve it.

READ MORE
1 2 3 … 5 Next
Projects
US-China AI Governance PhD Fellowship

The project will investigate the international relations and social dynamics of international AI competition, specifically the sociopolitical and bureaucratic drivers of US-China AI competition.


ACTIVE


VIEW PROJECT
Research Programme on AI, Government and Policy

This programme supports research on AI, Government and Policy.


ACTIVE


VIEW PROJECT
The Radicalisation of Sweden’s Image

This project analyses Sweden's depiction online and in news media by foreign radical groups and how these depictions, in turn gains visibility in Swedish media

VIEW PROJECT
1 2 3 … 8 Next
Integrity Statement

In the past five years, my research has been funded by the Volkswagen Foundation, the German Ministry of Education, the Swedish Defence Research Agency (for a study of bots in the Swedish election in 2018), the European Union under Horizon 2020, the Tencent Internet and Society Institute, the European Commission DG Connect, the Arts and Humanities Research Council, the Economic and Social Research Council, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and the Sloan Foundation.

Recordings
Online Politics in India and the US: what went wrong?

With Professor Ralph Schroeder

I will argue that non-gatekept online media are here to stay as part of the public arena. They allow counterpublics to challenge elites and traditional media, for better and worse. This has given rise to populism in the US and India.

WATCH NOW
Computational analysis of Modi’s Twitter and social media uses

With Jean Thomas Martelli and Professor Ralph Schroeder

Jean Thomas Martelli analyses Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's social media utilisation.

WATCH NOW
From Archives to Servers: How the Internet has Transformed Historical Scholarship

With Professor Ian Milligan

The OII is delighted to welcome Ian Milligan from the University of Waterloo. Ian's research focuses on historians use of web archives, as well as the impact of digital sources on historical practices more generally.

WATCH NOW
Reflections on the tenth anniversary of the MSc Social Science of the Internet

With Dr Victoria Nash, Professor Ralph Schroeder, and Professor Greg Taylor

OII academics Professor Victoria Nash, Professor Ralph Schroeder and Professor Greg Taylor share their reflections on the origins of the MSc programme and its successes.

WATCH NOW
1 2 3 Next
Featured Reports
Can the Internet Advance the Social Good? Mapping the Landscape

By Professor Ralph Schroeder

This report provides an overview of how the internet may play a role in promoting the social good, focusing on the areas of the public understandings of history and of climate change.

READ MORE
Data-Driven Business Models: Challenges and Opportunities of Big Data

By Monica Bulger, Greg Taylor, and Ralph Schroeder

How is big data being used in businesses toward growth, and what are the obstacles to its increased use? This report, written by Oxford Internet Institute researchers, answers this question by drawing on interviews with leaders and stakeholders.

READ MORE
News & Press
Blogs & Press releases
The 2024 Indian Elections: The Strategic Use of Journalism, Social Media, and Internet Governance in a Modi-centric Election

18 April 2024

As the world’s most populated country and largest democracy hold its 2024 elections, we consider the role of digital technologies in the election campaign.

READ NOW
Highlighting our work on Generative AI

27 October 2023

The OII is leading the debate on Artificial Intelligence. Generative AI has been a key area of interest for faculty, researchers and students for many years. This article brings together some of this work to date and highlights forthcoming work.

READ NOW
Professor Ralph Schroeder wins Teaching Award

9 May 2023

Professor Ralph Schroeder has been named as a winner of the Achievement Award at the University of Oxford 2023 Divisional Teaching Excellence Awards.

READ NOW
Clear link between climate scepticism and support for right-wing populists, study finds

12 January 2021

A study by Oxford University, carried out in partnership with the Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences, Germany, has found clear evidence of a link between people supporting right-wing political parties and climate change scepticism.

PRESS RELEASE
READ NOW
1 2 3 Next
Press Coverage
The Code Is Not the Law: Why Claude’s Constitution Misleads

Lawfare, 09 April 2026

Anthropic’s appeals to constitutionalism and virtue-ethics risk obscuring where the power and accountability for shaping AI behavior lies.

READ NOW
Social platforms’ ‘language blind spots’ in content moderation bring brand safety concerns

The Media Leader, 29 August 2025

Millions of social media users in the EU are posting in languages without any human moderation oversight, according to a new study of recently mandated transparency data under the EU’s Digital Services Act (DSA), conducted by OII researchers.

READ NOW
Less hate, more clarity: Check out Pixstory, a new social-media app out of India

Hindustan Times, 23 January 2023

We’ve made our peace with doomscrolling. That’s just the way it is, we say — there’s bad news in the world; it comes at us in a steady stream; attached is a string of responses that are inane at best, violent and invasive at worst.

READ NOW
1 2 3 4 Next
Teaching
Current Students
Dr Felix M. Simon

Research Associate

Felix is a Research Fellow in AI and News at the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism and a former DPhil student at the OII. A former Leverhulme and Dieter Schwarz Scholar, he researches AI in journalism and the news.

VIEW PROFILE
Manuel Tonneau

DPhil Student

Manuel is a second-year DPhil student in Social Data Science and a Shirley Scholar at the OII. His research is focused on the cross-geographic study of harmful online content moderation.

VIEW PROFILE
Abid Abdurrahman Adonis

DPhil Student

Abid A. Adonis is a DPhil student at OII, interested in Digital Sovereignty, the Politics of Cyberspace, and the intersection between International Relations and technology.

VIEW PROFILE
Past Students
Dr Tobias Escher

Former DPhil Student

Tobias Escher has interests in citizen-government relationships online (eParticipation, eGovernment), in political representation as well as e-Social Science methods. He has a background in Communication Studies, Computer Science and Politics.

VIEW PROFILE
Dr Han-Teng Liao

Former DPhil Student

Han-Teng Liao is a student of various disciplines whose research aims to reconsider the role of keywords (sociolinguistics) and hyperlinks (webometrics) in shaping groups (governance) as bearers of ideas (political communications).

VIEW PROFILE
Dr Lucy Power

Former DPhil Student

Lucy Power examines the shifting boundaries of the modern life-science laboratory. Her thesis focused on determining the impact of online tools on the research practices of life scientists.

VIEW PROFILE
Dr Pu Yan

Research Associate

Dr. Pu Yan is an Assistant Professor at Peking University, specializing in computational social science, digital media platforms, and the societal impacts of algorithms.

VIEW PROFILE
Current Courses
Data and Society I

This course will introduce to some of the fundamental questions that have been raised in this domain across the social sciences.

Artificial Intelligence for Policymaking

This course examines how AI can be used to improve policymaking and governance. The course will explore how AI can be used to develop, evaluate, and implement better policies; as well as the technical and organizational conditions that enable AI-driven policymaking.

Advanced Social Theory

An overview of the major findings to date regarding the social implications of the Internet, drawing material from several social science disciplines, including communication studies, sociology, and political science.

Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities
University of Oxford
Radcliffe Observatory Quarter
Woodstock Road
Oxford
OX2 6GG +44 (0)1865 287210

General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk
Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk

STAFF INTRANET
NEWSLETTER
FOLLOW US:
INFORMATION FOR:
Prospective students
Alumni
Job seekers
Media
Policy makers
© Oxford Internet Institute 2026 | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Copyright Policy | Accessibility | Email Webmaster