Skip down to main content
Research
Study
People
News & Events
About
Engage
OII >  
PEOPLE >  
Professor Rebecca Eynon
Professor of Education, the Internet and Society
Profile Contents
About
Positions at the OII
Contact
Research
News & Press
Recordings
Teaching
About

Rebecca Eynon holds a joint academic post between the Oxford Internet Institute (OII) and the Department of Education at the University of Oxford. Her research explores the relationships between education, the Internet and inequalities.

Her work has been supported by a range of funders including the British Academy, the Economic and Social Research Council, the European Commission and Google. She was co-editor of Learning, Media and Technology from 2011-2021. She is currently on the editorial board for Learning, Media and Technology and Information and Learning Sciences.

Rebecca currently leads a project titled, Towards Equity Focused Approaches to EdTech – one of nine projects funded by the ESRC Education Programme, and is an international investigator for the ARC Centre for the Digital Child.

Rebecca teaches on the MSc in Social Science of the Internet at the OII and on the MSc in Education (Digital and Social Change) at the Department of Education. At both departments, she supervises DPhil students interested in digital education and social justice.

Areas of Interest for Doctoral Supervision

AI, digital divides, education, inequality, ethics, learning, skills, social justice and youth.

Research Interests

Sociology of education, digital education, everyday life and learning with the Internet, digital and social exclusion, the political economy of EdTech, the role of computational social science in education research

Positions at the OII
Professor of Education, the Internet and Society, October 2020 -
Associate Professor, May 2014 - October 2020
Senior Research Fellow, January 2014 - October 2020
Research Fellow, January 2005 - December 2013
Contact
rebecca.eynon@oii.ox.ac.uk
+44 (0)1865 287206
Papers
ORCID
Research
Publications

Notable Publications
Komljenovic, J., Williamson, B., EYNON, R. and Davies, H. (2023) "When public policy ‘fails’ and venture capital ‘saves’ education: Edtech investors as economic and political actors", Globalization Societies and Education. ahead-of-print (ahead-of-print) 1-16.
Eynon, R.E. (2023) "The future trajectory of the AIED community: defining the ‘knowledge tradition’ in critical times", International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education. 34 (1) 105-110.
Eynon, R. (2023) "Utilising a Critical Realist Lens to Conceptualise Digital Inequality: The Experiences of Less Well-Off Internet Users", SOCIAL SCIENCE COMPUTER REVIEW. 41 (3) 1081-1096.
Eynon, R. (2022) "DATAFICATION AND THE ROLE OF SCHOOLING: Challenging the status quo" In: Learning to Live with Datafication: Educational Case Studies and Initiatives from Across the World 1st. Taylor & Francis. 17-34.
Gillani, N., Chu, E., Beeferman, D., Eynon, R. and Roy, D. (2021) "Parents’ Online School Reviews Reflect Several Racial and Socioeconomic Disparities in K–12 Education", AERA Open. 7 (January-March 2021) 233285842199234.
Hakimi, L., EYNON, R. and MURPHY, V. (2021) "The ethics of using digital trace data in education: A thematic review of the research landscape", Review of Educational Research. 91 (5) 671-717.
Davies, H.C., Eynon, R. and Salveson, C. (2020) "The Mobilisation of AI in Education: A Bourdieusean Field Analysis", Sociology. 0 (3) 1-22.
Eynon, R. (2020) "Becoming digitally literate: Reinstating an educational lens to digital skills policies for adults", British Educational Research Journal. 47 (1) 146-162.
WINTERS, N., EYNON, R., GENIETS, A., ROBSON, J. and KAHN, K. (2019) "Can we avoid digital structural violence in future learning systems?", Learning, Media and Technology. 45 (1) 17-30.
EYNON, R.E., DEETJEN, U. and MALMBERG, L. (2018) "Moving on up in the Information Society?", The Information Society. 34 (5) 316-327.
Davies, H. and Eynon, R. (2018) "Is digital upskilling the next generation our ‘pipeline to prosperity’?", New Media and Society. 2 (11) 3961.
All Publications
Projects
AI and the reconfiguration of teachers’ work

UK policy makers are facing a teacher recruitment and retention crisis, driven by workload and the changing nature of teachers’ work. This project explores how AI reconfigures teachers' work, and the implications for workload, identity and pedagogy.


ACTIVE


VIEW PROJECT
Research Programme on AI & Work

This programme supports research in the sphere of AI & Work.


ACTIVE


VIEW PROJECT
Towards equity focused approaches to EdTech: a socio-technical perspective

This project investigates the relationships between equity, digital technologies and teaching and learning.


ACTIVE


VIEW PROJECT
1 2 3 … 7 Next
Integrity Statement

In the past five years my work has been financially supported by UK taxpayers, the UK’s Economic and Social Research Council, the John Fell Fund, the Templeton World Charity Foundation, the Dieter Schwarz Foundation, Google, the Australian Research Council, the European Commission and Ferrero. As part of my communication and policy outreach, I have served in a paid advisory capacity to the Good Things Foundation and the Robertson Foundation and in an unpaid capacity to the RSA, the Digital Access for All Taskforce, and the Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation. I am currently a steering committee member of the Swiss National Science Foundation’s Digital Transformation Research Programme, and a member of the Educational and Public Engagement Advisory Committee for the Insight Centre for Data Analytics, Ireland. I conduct my research in line with the University’s academic integrity code of practice.

Recordings
When Big Data Meets Small Data

With Professor Rebecca Eynon

This talk was a part of "The interdisciplinary methods challenge: some highs and lows", a seminar for the 2016 QUEST (Qualitative Expertise at Southampton) series.

WATCH NOW
IPP2014: Crowdsourcing for Politics and Policy

With Professor Helen Margetts, Dr Sandra Gonzalez-Bailon, Professor Vili Lehdonvirta, and Professor Rebecca Eynon

The IPP2014 conference will explore the new research frontiers opened up by crowdsourcing for politics and policy. Taking place in Oxford, it is convened by the OII, the journal Policy and Internet, and the ECPR.

WATCH NOW
Learning, Education and the Internet

With Professor Rebecca Eynon

Rebecca Eynon summarises key areas of her research on learning, education, and the Internet.

WATCH NOW
Blogs & Press releases
Digital literacy on the curriculum is an opportunity for a more proactive response to AI in schools

17 November 2025

The OII's Professor Rebecca Eynon welcomes curriculum changes, and urges an active role for young people in AI.

READ NOW
Highlighting our work on Generative AI

27 October 2023

The OII is leading the debate on Artificial Intelligence. Generative AI has been a key area of interest for faculty, researchers and students for many years. This article brings together some of this work to date and highlights forthcoming work.

READ NOW
Oxford academics launch project to research the impact of technology in UK schools

7 December 2022

Oxford Internet Institute researchers awarded ESRC funding to research the impact of technology in UK schools.

READ NOW
Oxford Internet Institute academics recognised in Social Sciences Divisional awards scheme

21 June 2022

Congratulations to OII academics named as recipients of divisional teaching awards.

READ NOW
1 2 3 4 Next
Press Coverage
3 ways schools can teach students to shape AI — not just survive it, Oxford professor says

Business Insider, 18 November 2025

Professor Rebecca Eynon, from the Oxford Internet Institute and the University of Oxford's Department of Education, says educators must go beyond preparing students to cope with technology — and instead help them shape it.

READ NOW
Coronavirus school closures impact 1.3 billion children – and remote learning is increasing inequality

The Conversation, 18 May 2020

COVID-19 is disrupting education on an unprecedented scale and this is already leading to growing inequalities.

READ NOW
Clive Thompson says the digital age is making us smarter and the kids are still all right

Couriermail.com.au, 31 January 2014

Rebecca Eynon is among experts commenting on young people's use of social media in Australian online news.

READ NOW
1 2 3 Next
Current Courses
Education, the Internet and Society

ICTs have the potential to transform how, what and where people learn, and challenges existing ideas of what the purpose and nature of formal education is and what the future of education should be.