Skip down to main content
Research
Study
People
News & Events
About
Engage
OII >  
PEOPLE >  
Dr Robert Prey
Associate Professor of Digital Culture
Profile Contents
About
Positions at the OII
Contact
Research
News & Press
Recordings
Teaching
About

Dr. Robert Prey is Associate Professor of Digital Culture at the Oxford Internet Institute, and a Research Fellow at Green Templeton College.

Dr. Prey studies the relationship between technology, capitalism and culture. His research and writings have included work on the social and cultural implications of algorithmic recommendation systems and the interdependent processes of ‘datafication’ and ‘platformization’.

Robert’s current focus is the creative labour of musicians as they adapt to online platforms. He is principal investigator of the European Research Council-funded project “The Platformization of Music: Towards a Global Theory”, or ‘PlatforMuse’ (2023-2028). The project investigates how streaming and social media platforms influence the creative practices, identities, and working conditions of musicians around the world, with a particular focus on the Netherlands, Nigeria and South Korea.

Dr. Prey is also part of an international team of researchers investigating the algorithmic mediation of taste and streaming consumption practices in Brazil. This project is funded by a Brazil National Council for Scientific and Technological Development Grant. Previous projects have been funded by the Academy of Korean Studies and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada.

Robert joins from the University of Groningen in the Netherlands, where he was Assistant Professor in the Centre for Media and Journalism Studies. He completed his PhD at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, Canada, where he is an Affiliated Faculty Member in the Transnational Culture and Digital Technology Lab.

Research Interests

Digital Culture, Digital Economy, Cultural Work and Labour, Music and Cultural Industries, Platforms, Algorithmic Recommender Systems, Datafication, Social and Critical Theory

Areas of interest for Doctoral Supervision include: Music Platformization, Platform Capitalism, Global Digital Culture, Digital Labour, Creative Labour, Personalization, Algorithmic Recommender Systems, Datafication

Positions at the OII
Associate Professor of Digital Culture, October 2024 -
Contact
robert.prey@oii.ox.ac.uk
LinkedIn
platformuse.wordpress.com/
Google Scholar
Papers
ORCID
Research
Publications

All Publications
Projects
OxDEG: The Oxford Digital Ethnography Group

OxDEG, the Oxford Digital Ethnography Group, comprises students and faculty members from Oxford University who discuss and share ideas about the evolution of ethnography in a heavily mediated world.

READ MORE
Integrity Statement

In the past five years my work has been financially supported by the Academy of Korean Studies, the Brazilian National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, and the European Research Council. I conduct my research in line with the University’s academic integrity code of practice.

Recordings
How streaming affects musicians, and what they can do about it

With Dr Robert Prey, and Dr Seonok Lee

While it's never been easier for musicians to release music, the economics of the music industry and online streaming mean earning a living has become even more challenging.

WATCH NOW
Featured Report
Musicians at Work in the Platform and AI Era

By Femke de Rijk and Robert Prey

A new report from the Oxford Internet Institute and the University of Groningen identifies the 'streaming paradox' with evidence from five countries - Brazil, Chile, the Netherlands, Nigeria and South Korea.

READ MORE
News & Press
Blogs & Press releases
Global musicians face the same ‘streaming paradox’, new study finds

9 April 2026

For musicians everywhere, streaming is indispensable, but so is the belief that it simply doesn’t pay fairly.

READ NOW
Associate Professor in Digital Culture appointed

30 September 2024

The Oxford Internet Institute (OII) at the University of Oxford has appointed Dr Robert Prey to the role of Associate Professor in Digital Culture. 

READ NOW
Press Coverage
Streaming trap: Most musicians earn peanuts but can’t afford opt-out

Yahoo!, 20 April 2026

ICYMI: New report from Dr Robert Prey reveals musicians worldwide are caught in a "streaming paradox": platforms are essential, but the pay isn't.

READ NOW
Teaching
Current Students
Benedetta Mammi

DPhil Student

Benedetta is a PhD researcher and St Edmund Hall-HEC scholar at the Oxford Internet Institute. She specialises in how digital technologies shape the conditions under which we work, create, and produce.

VIEW PROFILE
Current Courses
Digital Ethnography

This course is designed to give students experience both collecting and analysing qualitative data as part of ethnographic research.

Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities
University of Oxford
Radcliffe Observatory Quarter
Woodstock Road
Oxford
OX2 6GG +44 (0)1865 287210

General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk
Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk

STAFF INTRANET
NEWSLETTER
FOLLOW US:
INFORMATION FOR:
Prospective students
Alumni
Job seekers
Media
Policy makers
© Oxford Internet Institute 2026 | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Copyright Policy | Accessibility | Email Webmaster