Skip down to main content
Research
Study
People
News & Events
About
Engage
OII >  
PEOPLE >  
Dr Victoria Nash
Senior Policy Fellow, Associate Professor
(she/her)
Profile Contents
About
Positions at the OII
Contact
Research
News & Press
Recordings
Teaching
About

Vicki Nash is Associate Professor and Senior Policy Fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute (OII) at the University of Oxford. She was also, from 2021 to 2025, Director of the Institute.

Please note that Vicki is on research leave in 2026 and is not able to host new visitors or undertake any examining during this period.

Drawing on her background as a political theorist, her research centres on the governance challenges of digital technologies, with a particular focus on online safety, content moderation and platform regulation. Recent research has included an analysis of age verification policies as a tool for balancing the interests of children and adults online, and an analysis of the UK Online Safety Act. She holds several digital policy advisory roles, including membership of the UK Government’s multi-stakeholder UK Council on Internet Safety (UKCIS) Evidence Group, and the World Economic Forum’s Digital Safety Coalition. She is frequently called on to give expert evidence in UK and EU policy consultations on broader issues such as platform governance and Internet regulation.

Prior to joining the OII in 2002, Vicki was a Research Fellow at the Institute of Public Policy Research. She received her D.Phil in Politics from Nuffield College, Oxford University in 1999, having completed an M.Phil in Politics from Magdalen College in 1996, and a BA (Hons) Degree in Politics, Philosophy and Economics before this.

Areas of Interest for Doctoral Supervision

Child safety, democracy, ethics, governance, inequality, public policy

Positions at the OII
Director, March 2021 - December 2025
Associate Professor, May 2019 -
Senior Policy Fellow, August 2014 -
Deputy Director, August 2014 - March 2021
Director of Graduate Studies, September 2010 - March 2014
Director of Graduate Studies, October 2008 - September 2009
Policy and Research Fellow, August 2002 - August 2014
Contact
victoria.nash@oii.ox.ac.uk
01865 287226
she/her
LinkedIn
Google Scholar
Research
Publications

Notable Publications
NASH, V. and Felton, L. (2024) "Treating the symptoms or the disease? Analysing the UK Online Safety Act's approach to digital regulation", Policy and Internet. 16 (4) 818-832.
Margetts, H., Lehdonvirta, V., Gonzalez-Bailon, S., Hutchinson, J., Bright, J., Nash, V. and Sutcliffe, D. (2021) "The Internet and public policy: Future directions", POLICY AND INTERNET. 13 (2) 162-184.
Nash, V. (2019) "Revise and resubmit? Reviewing the 2019 Online Harms White Paper", Journal of Media Law. 11 (1) 1-10.
Nash, V., Bright, J., Lehdonvirta, V. and Margetts, H. (2017) "Public Policy in the Platform Society", Policy and Internet. 9 (4) 368-373.
Przybylski, A.K. and Nash, V. (2017) "Internet Filtering Technology and Aversive Online Experiences in Adolescents.", The Journal of pediatrics. 184 215-219.e1.
Slavtcheva-Petkova, V., Nash, V.J. and Bulger, M. (2015) "Evidence on the extent of harms experienced by children as a result of online risks: implications for policy and research", INFORMATION COMMUNICATION & SOCIETY. 18 (1) 48-62.
All Publications
Related Sites
The Oxford Internet Survey is the longest-running academic survey of internet use in Britain, describing how it has evolved from 2003 to the present day.
AN OII MICRO-SITE
VISIT SITE
Projects
The Digital Lives of Care-experienced Children

This project investigates how digital skills develop in the absence of traditional family support structures and aims to identify any critical and overlooked gaps that emerge.


ACTIVE


VIEW PROJECT
Navigating Child Safety Online ↗

As global policymakers grapple with the urgent question of how best to safeguard minors in online environments, a new project from the Oxford Programme for Cyber and Technology Policy aims to address these challenges in partnership with BSG.


ACTIVE


VISIT PROJECT WEBSITE
Political Communication, AI and Data Diversity in the US

This project investigates contemporary trends in political communication, political polarization, artificial intelligence, and data diversity in the United States.

VIEW PROJECT
1 2 3 4 Next
Integrity Statement

In the past five years I have not received any external funding in support of my research, but in 2026 I have three funded research projects beginning, supported by the MacArthur Foundation, the Nuffield Foundation and the ESRC. As part of my science communication and policy outreach responsibilities, over the same period I have served in an unpaid capacity on OfCom’s Making Sense of Media Advisory Panel, on the UK Council on Internet Safety’s Evidence Group, and advisory boards for the Startup Coalition, Internet Matters, and the World Economic Forum’s Digital Safety Coalition. I hold a paid advisory role on the International Strategic Advisory Board of the Interdisciplinary Transformation University in Austria.

Recordings
The Role and Impact of Parental control Technologies in Parent-Teen Relationships

With Dr Ekaterina Hertog, Dr Victoria Nash, and Professor Netta Weinstein

This study explores how parental control technologies affect family relationships from the perspective of adolescents aged 16-17 in the UK.

WATCH NOW
The OII Podcast Ep. 3: The digital lives of children

With Dr Ekaterina Hertog and Dr Victoria Nash

How digital technologies impact young children, and new ways to think about the ethical and safety measures that govern their use of technology.

LISTEN NOW
OII experts add their voices to the online safety debate at Family Online Safety Institute (FOSI)European Forum

With Dr Victoria Nash

OII Director, Associate Professor and Senior Policy Fellow, Vicki Nash gave the academic perspective, joining a panel of experts to discuss the key theme of generative AI in relation to online safety.

WATCH NOW
It’s Not Her Fault: Trust, Resignation, and Anthropomorphism Among Young Adult Alexa Users

With Dr Ekaterina Hertog and Dr Victoria Nash

We welcome Professor Katya Hertog of the OII for the presentation of her paper on young adult users of Amazon's Alexa programme.

WATCH NOW
1 2 3 4 Next
Featured Report
Child Protection and Freedom of Expression Online

By Alison Powell, Michael Hills, and Victoria Nash

How should we protect children online while protecting freedom of expression? This report discusses the result of a meeting between advocates and offers thoughts on how different advocates with different agendas can work together in building policy.

READ MORE
Blogs & Press releases
Is an under-16 social media ban the right course?

23 January 2026

Dr Victoria Nash, Associate Professor and Senior Policy Fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute, researches the governance challenges of digital technologies, with a particular focus on online safety, content moderation and platform regulation.

READ NOW
Oxford Internet Institute relocates to the new Schwarzman Centre

30 September 2025

The Oxford Internet Institute (OII) has moved to its new home in the Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities.

READ NOW
Associate Professor in Social Data Science appointed

17 July 2024

The Oxford Internet Institute (OII) at the University of Oxford has appointed Dr Mohsen Mosleh to the role of Associate Professor in Social Data Science.

READ NOW
Dr Nash’s OII Directorship extended to end 2025

8 July 2024

Dr Victoria Nash will continue as Director of the Oxford Internet Institute until the end of 2025.

READ NOW
1 2 3 … 11 Next
Press Coverage
Safer Internet Day 2026 with Dr Vicki Nash

You Tube, 12 February 2026

Dr Vicki Nash, Associate Professor and Senior Policy Fellow, Oxford Internet Institute, discusses the evidence for banning social media for under 16s. 

READ NOW
Is an under-16 social media ban the right course?

Tech Xplore, 23 January 2026

Dr Victoria Nash, senior policy fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute, notes that Australia’s under-16 social media ban has strong parental and political backing, but its effectiveness remains an open question.

READ NOW
University’s £185m arts centre due to open

BBC News, 30 September 2025

A new £185m arts and humanities centre will open in October, it has been announced which will also include academic faculty space, including the Oxford Internet Institute.

READ NOW
1 2 3 … 9 Next