Skip down to main content
Research
Study
People
News & Events
About
Engage
OII >  
PEOPLE >  
Professor Viktor Mayer-Schönberger
Professor of Internet Governance and Regulation
Profile Contents
About
Positions at the OII
Contact
Research
News & Press
Recordings
Teaching
About

Viktor Mayer-Schönberger is professor of Internet governance and regulation at the University of Oxford, one of the three statutory professors at the OII. His recent work focuses on the governance of information, with an emphasis on AI and big data. He has published over a dozen books, including the international bestseller “Big Data” and the awards-winning “Delete”, “Reinventing Capitalism” and “Framers”. His latest book “Guardrails” was hailed as a must.-read in SCIENCE. His work on data access, as detailed in “Access Rules” has directly led to policy changes in Europe. In addition to his research and teaching, he has advised governments and international organizations and corporations. In his spare time he likes to rock-climb and learn about architecture.

Research Interests

Big Data, digital economy, institutions and governance in the data age

Positions at the OII
Director of Advancement of the OII, February 2012 - February 2013
Professor of Internet Governance and Regulation, October 2010 -
Visiting Research Fellow, November 2009 - November 2009
Contact
viktor.ms@oii.ox.ac.uk
'+44 (0)1865 287232
www.vmsweb.net/
Papers
Research
Publications

All Publications
Featured Publication
Publication
Access Rules: Freeing Data from Big Tech for a Better Future

By Viktor Mayer-Schönberger & Thomas Ramge

Information is power, and the time is now for digital liberation. Access Rules mounts a strong and hopeful argument for how informational tools at present in the hands of a few could instead become empowering machines for everyone.

READ MORE
1 2 3 4 Next
Projects
Cyber Security Behaviours (CYBERSECURITY)

Through empirical research, this project seeks to understand the determinants of individual cyber security behaviours of students in France and the UK.

READ MORE
Integrity Statement

I currently serve as a member of the German Digital Council and the AXA Data Protection and Ethics Panel.

Recordings
Framers: Human Advantage in an Age of Technology and Turmoil

With Professor Viktor Mayer-Schönberger

Professor Viktor Mayer-Schönberger, one of the co-authors of 'Framers' and Professor of Internet Governance and Regulation at the OII, will discuss his book and answer audience questions.

WATCH NOW
“Delete” – The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital Age

With Professor Viktor Mayer-Schönberger

WATCH NOW
Delete: The Virtue of Forgetting

With Professor Viktor Mayer-Schönberger

Viktor Mayer-Schönberger will discuss his recent book, 'Delete: The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital Age', which looks at the surprising phenomenon of perfect remembering in the digital age, revealing why we must reintroduce our ability to forget.

WATCH NOW
Book Launch: Big Data – A Revolution That Transforms How We Live, Work and Think

With Professor Viktor Mayer-Schönberger and Kenneth Neil Cukier

Viktor Mayer-Schönberger and Kenneth Cukier, co-authors of Big Data, explain why big data may be on par with the Internet (or perhaps even the printing press).

WATCH NOW
1 2 Next
Featured Report
Data Protection Principles for the 21st Century: Revising the 1980 OECD Guidelines

By Fred H. Cate, Peter Cullen, Viktor Mayer-Schönberger

Age-old principles for data protection need updating for the age of big data. This report, from an Oxford Internet Institute-led working group, offers suggestions for changes to the influential OECD guidelines first drawn up in 1980.

READ MORE
News & Press
Blogs & Press releases
Reinventing Privacy Principles for the Big Data Age – New Report

6 December 2013

Now is the time to augment and improve the Privacy Principles drawn up by the OECD over 30 years ago to ensure their relevance in the age of Big Data. A new report by Professor Mayer-Schönberger and colleagues signposts five priorities.

PRESS RELEASE
READ NOW
Internet, Politics, Policy 2010: Closing keynote by Viktor Mayer-Schönberger

17 September 2010

READ NOW
Viktor Mayer-Schönberger Appointed Professor of Internet Governance and Regulation at the Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford

12 May 2010

Viktor Mayer-Schönberger is appointed Professor of Internet Governance and Regulation at the Oxford Internet Institute (OII), University of Oxford.

PRESS RELEASE
READ NOW
Press Coverage
What Are AI’s Rules of the Road?

Foreign Policy, 25 December 2024

This year, countries and companies debated how the technology should be regulated.

READ NOW
Oxford’s Big Data Pioneer Inspires Students at Concordia Shanghai

Associated Press, 28 November 2024

The Oxford professor delivered a seminar to Concordia high school students and the wider community on the transformative power of big data and generative AI.

READ NOW
A Realist Perspective on AI Regulation

Foreign Policy, 16 September 2024

Experimentation is the right strategy—as long as regulators can learn from one another.

READ NOW
1 2 3 … 5 Next
Teaching
Current Students
Yi-ting Lien

DPhil Student

Yi-ting is a DPhil student in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences.

VIEW PROFILE
Current Courses
Law and the Internet

Introducing the challenges and limitations of conventional legal institutions on the Internet (especially those administered by the State) and reinterpreting these institutions in the context of the Internet.

Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities
University of Oxford
Radcliffe Observatory Quarter
Woodstock Road
Oxford
OX2 6GG +44 (0)1865 287210

General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk
Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk

STAFF INTRANET
NEWSLETTER
FOLLOW US:
INFORMATION FOR:
Prospective students
Alumni
Job seekers
Media
Policy makers
© Oxford Internet Institute 2026 | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Copyright Policy | Accessibility | Email Webmaster