Skip down to main content
Research
Study
People
News & Events
About
Engage
OII >  
PEOPLE >  
Dr Wm. Matthew Kennedy
Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow
(He/Him)
Profile Contents
About
Positions at the OII
Contact
About

Wm. Matthew (Matt) Kennedy is a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Postdoctoral Fellow.

He researches AI ethics, sociotechnical safety, and political economy, focusing on three themes in particular: AI evaluation and red-teaming methodologies; AI and knowledge production (with special interest in AI in education, epistemic harms, and interdisciplinarity in AI); and decolonial AI.

He is also an affiliate of several institutions and organizations, including the University of Sydney Centre for AI, Trust, and Governance, the Machine Learning & Society team at Women at the Table (a systems change nonprofit based in Geneva), the AI and Education at Oxford University research hub (AIEOU), and the Center for AI and Digital Policy (as a research group member). He contributes regularly to events put on by Humane Intelligence (a nonprofit with the mission of building open AI assurance tools and community) and is an inaugural ORF US-India AI Fellow.

Before joining the OII, he received his PhD from the University of Sydney in the history of colonialism, international law, and “scientific” governance. Thereafter, he held research fellowships at the University of Texas at Austin and the University of Sussex. After a period of time spent in the technology industry, he became increasingly involved in AI evaluations functions, eventually leading a small team tasked with structuring evaluations of AI systems, collaborating with external colleagues to produce original research on AI ethics, safety, and governance, and occasionally advising U.S. and international public officials on matters of AI policy.

While at the OII, he will begin a new project that investigates the colonial past as a source of sociotechnical foresight for guiding the design, development, deployment, use, and governance of AI systems.

Research Interests

AI Evaluations; AI Red Teaming; Methodology and Measurement Science; Interdisciplinarity in AI; Social Impacts of AI; AI Policy; AI in Education; AI and the Production of Knowledge; AI/Digital Colonialism; AI Political Economy; Decolonial AI; AI Ethics; AI and Human Rights; AI Foresight

Positions at the OII
Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow, July 2025 -
Contact
matthew.kennedy@oii.ox.ac.uk
He/Him
LinkedIn
Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities
University of Oxford
Radcliffe Observatory Quarter
Woodstock Road
Oxford
OX2 6GG +44 (0)1865 287210

General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk
Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk

STAFF INTRANET
NEWSLETTER
FOLLOW US:
INFORMATION FOR:
Prospective students
Alumni
Job seekers
Media
Policy makers
© Oxford Internet Institute 2026 | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Copyright Policy | Accessibility | Email Webmaster